# wallstreetbets-big-data-analytics
With the help of the stimulus checks, a low interest rate, and ample free time at home, retail investors shine like never before in 2021. The rise of “Robinhood Traders”, meme stocks, and r/WallStreetBets wrecked havoc on the market, most notoriously in GameStop (NYSE: GME) and AMC Entertainment (NYSE: AMC) in Janurary, pushing their prices up by over 700% in a week. Moreover, both stocks sustained their relatively high price without reverting to pre-hype prices. Thus, it becomes important to understand the behavior of retail investors and their impact on the stock to better control idiosyncratic risks for both institutions and individual investors.  This project intends to investigate one part of the relationship between retail investors and their impact on the stock market. Specifically, we want to find any relationship between posts on r/WallStreetBets, a notorious sub-Reddit credited for pushign the price of GameStop. Ultimately, we aim to determine the impact r/WallStreetBets has on individual stock prices and volume.  Various previous studies and project has investigated similar relationship between Reddit posts and market prices, but found middling results. Our project is novel in that  1) it investigates the impact on a collection of individual stocks, generally smaller-cap stocks, instead of the overall market. Previous studies often use the Dow Jones index and S&amp;P 500 as a proxy to study impact. These benchmarks are consisted of large cap companies with deep liquidility that are unlikely to be moved;  2) we aim to use regression algorithms, instead of classificiation (often simply indicating up or down), to better quantify the relationship between Reddit posts and stocks;  3) we focus specifically on excess returns and excess volume, instead of the price or the direction of the price movement. This is both more percise, and more complementary to exisiting studies on the topic;  4) unlike most public projects that focuses on using Reddit titles and assigning them equal weight, we use both comment titles and comments themselves, weighted by their upvotes.
